those stringy bits of banana peel
are the one that make bananas smell and
taste special they're called phloem
bundles and they transport
all the nutritive elements from the
leaves to all the other parts of the
plant
they're also edible the first vegetable
ever grown in space
is a potato they managed to grow five
small potatoes from tubers
if we ever go space traveling we'll
probably need some space french fries
so sad because of the gravity it's going
to taste dull up there
just like any other food
potatoes just like watermelons and
celery are pretty liquid
they're 80 percent water technically you
can squeeze some potato juice or
smoothie but yeah they taste better when
roasted
since potatoes are packed with water it
can help them absorb and reflect
wi-fi and radio signals just like humans
do
fancy a potato wave protection shielding
you don't need to actually eat any
garlic to taste it
if you rub a clove of garlic on your
feet you'll taste it within 15 minutes
there's no explanation but it actually
works so
maybe it's a placebo effect
lemons get juicier if you warm them up a
little bit in a microwave
the heat softens the frozen membranes so
the juice can flow out freely
more lemonade for you you might have
never heard
about the keppel fruit but it has a
superpower of making your sweat
smell like violets it doesn't mean
people can now stop taking showers
though
oranges aren't really orange in the wild
the climate
in subtropical regions isn't cold enough
to break down the chlorophyll
so the fruit peel stays yellow or
greenish
such oranges usually get treated with
ethylene gas
that can help turn the oranges you know
orange
you should drop the cranberries to see
if they're tasty these berries can
bounce because of teeny tiny air pockets
inside
this air lets them bounce and float the
higher the berries bounce
the better they are if you prefer some
beef over
pumpkin seeds you'll deprive yourself of
some protein
in fact pumpkin seeds and broccoli have
more protein per calorie than any meat
almond is often mistaken as a nut but in
fact it's a fruit that grows on a tree
and looks very much like a peach a nut
should be dry
yet almonds have a fleshy layer you open
up that layer and get the seed you eat
your morning coffee is actually stewed
fruit
coffee beans are a berry pit so it's
basically a drink made of berries
if an onion was grown in a soil or in
sulfur
its taste is going to be soft and you
won't shed a tear while cooking
if the soil was rich in sulfur well make
sure there's a kleenex box for you
when cutting an onion rinse the knife
with cold water to make your cooking
tearless you can also try chilling the
onion
the cells will react slower and you'll
cry less
there are two types of baby carrots
these can be the veggies picked before
they reach maturity
or simply trimmed adult carrots this is
just a marketing trick to turn carrots
that have no market value
into a product that can actually be sold
for a higher price
there are no calorie negative veggies
some people claim that
eating lettuce kale and celery requires
more energy than it can give
these veggies still have up to 10
calories per stack which is little
but the digesting requires somewhere
around half a calorie
if you ever read a cool fact about the
outer part of a cucumber being used as
an eraser
don't fall for it i tried it and it
kinda ruined my notebook
now when you eat a lollipop you actually
just swallow some flavored saliva
the world's largest lollipop weighs over
seven thousand pounds
that would require a lot of saliva
when you buy some grated cheese get
ready for a surprise
if the package says it contains
cellulose it means that cheese does
contain
wood pulp don't worry it's digestible
it's added to prevent it from clumping
[Music]
if you grab some wasabi in the
supermarket you probably
bought mere horseradish true wasabi is
quite difficult to make
so it's usually replaced with
horseradish and some extra flavorings
and colorants
so about 99 percent of wasabi sold in
the us
is not the real thing what's in common
between
ranch salad dressing and sunscreen it's
titanium dioxide they used to make it
white
this dressing isn't originally white
just like caesar or blue cheese
dressing farm-raised salmon
are actually white no titanium dioxide
involved there
to make them look like they're wild
brethren that are naturally pink
because of abundant shrimps in their
diet farm-raised salmons are
artificially dyed
your favorite fruit candies may be
shining because they're covered with
carnauba wax
many fruit especially apples have a thin
layer of this wax too
not only can it make candies and fruit
appear glossy but it also makes your car
shine and delicious
peaches and nectarines seem different
but in fact
these are the same fruit if the
fluffiness gene is dominant we get
peaches
if not we get smooth nectarines
apples taste better when they're sliced
like this because they're exposed to
oxygen
it activates a special enzyme
responsible for ripening
and visible browning the same happens
when you hit an apple
the oxygen gets inside the apple through
tiny cracks
and it gets riper on that side
now are you into white chocolate bad
news
it's not even close to real chocolate
it's basically a mixture of sugar
milk vanilla and cocoa butter cocoa
butter isn't enough for chocolate
it should contain chocolate liqueur or
powder
on the other hand limes and lemons are
quite different
lemons float but limes sink it's all
because
limes are denser than lemons 200 years
ago
ketchup was used as a medicine doctors
used to believe tomatoes had a lot of
medicinal properties
and so did ketchup we still love it but
as a dressing
chipotle pepper isn't some special type
of peppers
it's your good old jalapeno dried and
smoked jalapeno is chipotle
the only product that never goes off
even if you don't store it in the fridge
is honey it has low ph and lots of sugar
that's why organisms that can spoil it
just can't live in honey
all those bright candies are colored
with beetles
red food dye is made of carmine which is
made with cochineal beetles
red lipsticks are made with these
beetles too yeah yeah yeah
jam and jelly seem basically the same
thing but there's a huge difference
between them
jam is made of fruit while jelly is made
of fruit juice
expiration date on mineral water isn't
about water going bad
actually no water can spoil but the
bottle can
over time it starts leaking some
chemicals that aren't quite safe
tonic water can be fluorescent and uv
black light
it contains quinine which makes it both
bitter
and glowing the color of plates and cups
can affect your food perception
a group of 57 volunteers drank hot
chocolate out of different cups
but most people claim the orange cup hot
chocolate was the best
red color plates are cool for those on a
diet it looks alarming
so you end up eating less
crackers are even worse for your teeth
than sugar it's not sugar
but acid that decays the tooth enamel
sticky crackers produce that acid
it's a good environment for bacteria
they're going to feast in between your
teeth
strawberries and raspberries technically
aren't berries
these guys have their seeds on the
outside a true berry keeps them inside
grapes tomatoes cucumbers and even
bananas
i said bananas were berries but it's
still only partly true
it's actually a berry that grows on
herbs
if you want to ripen it fast just throw
it in a plastic bag
together with an apple or tomato these
two produce ethylene gas
which helps ripen other fruit
we all know the apples we buy in the
supermarket aren't freshly picked
before they get to the supermarket they
can sleep for 6
to 12 months and stay as good as new
watermelons can be boys and girls yep
this fruit does have genders boys are
taller and they have more water inside
girls appear shorter and rounder they're
also sweeter
allspice isn't a mix of seasonings as
you may think
it does smell somewhat like nutmeg
cinnamon and cloves
but it's actually an independent fruit
it's also called jamaica pepper
and is picked from the trees just like
cherries
brown sugar is another marketing trick
both types have the same origins
their only difference is that brown
sugar contains molasses
molasses is the dark syrupy by-product
that you get when you extract
sugars from beets or canes how sweet